# Superstore Analysis

Superstore dataset was gotten Kaggle website which represents the sales of various products under the category of furniture, office supplies and technology. The dataset shows the subcategories, shipping details across various locations and performance trends, it clearly provides business insights on Superstore dataset was gotten Kaggle website which represents the sales of various products under the category of furniture, office supplies and technology.
The dataset shows the subcategories, shipping details across various locations and performance trends, it clearly provides business insights on sales generated, profit made and discount given across all products. The primary objective of the dataset is to analyze and extract strategic information on products that needs to given proper market campaigns, products in which the company making loss. The analysis will help stakeholders identify trends at a glance instead of looking at rows of raw data.

## BUSINESS PROBLEM
• Which region generates the most profit?

• Which productions are underperforming?

• The states that generated the most revenue

• What is the total revenue generated, profit made, discount given

• Sales trend by month and weekday

• Day difference between ship date and order date, to identify products with same day delivery and the days it took for products to be delivered

• Sales/ profit generated by segment, category and subcategory

## KPI METRICS
Total sales / revenue       Revenue generated from all transactions
Profit margin               Profit percentage
Price per unit              Average price per product unit
Total quantity              Total units sold
Total discount              The sum of discount given
Total profit                Total earnings after cost removal

## KEY INSIGHTS
• Trend Analysis
Sales dropped drastically on Wednesday
Sales trended up from 2014 to 2017 with peak performance in 2017
Sales significantly increased in the 4th quarter and peaked in the month of
November.

• Discounts above 6% resulted in loss subsequently

• Phones and chairs generated the most sales

• The most profit was generated in the western region and the only region where
the profit is more than the discount given. Other regions have their profits less
the discount given ranging from 3% to 97% increase

• Majority of products are shipped through standard class and it takes averagely 4
days to get products shippe

## RECOMMENDATION
• Launch marketing campaigns or outreach across locations on Wednesdays to
improve sales on this weekday

• Reduce discounts on low profit products

• Each region should review discounts the given to make sure there is a scalable
balance that makes profit outweigh discounts

• Products that are underperforming should reviewed for marketing or
discontinuation

• Keep the promotion of phones and chairs up and double down on the remaining
products to avoid fully relying on just phones and chairs

• Increase investment on technology and office supplies

##  CONCLUSION
• The analysis showed that high sales does not equate profitability as seen in the
furniture category which made $742,000 but a profit margin of 2.49% compared
to other categories with over 17% profit margin each.

## Findings
• Certain regions need to review their discount strategy for profit improvement

• Technology products drive the most profit

• High discounts affected profit margin negatively.
